 

The on-c-e toolbar (once_tb1) operates on the file that has editor focus 
Drag and drop PDF files into a viewer from the folder pane, right click 
for context option or set and use macro button [4]. A viewer that does 
not lock the file (i.e. a browser) is recommended. 2.Download and unzip 
oncetoolsnnn.zip 3.Install the on-c-e tools folder by right clicking in 
tool box pane import folder select on-c-e tools folder from the unzipped 
file. Tools include a tool bar, documentation menu and tags that can be 
inserted into models by double clicking. 4.Close and reopen Komodo to 
complete installation. Edit a tool by right clicking on it in the tool 
pane and selecting Properties. Pane arrangement is adjustable. 5.Install 
the syntax coloring plugin once-0.3.1-ko.xpi using the menu - Tools Add 
On. Select the xpi file from the unzipped oncetoolsnnn folder. To set 
once syntax coloring for a file use the context Properties and Settings 
when the file is open in the editor and select once as the Language in 
the File Preferences settings. 6.After running a model using buttons 
[13] or [14], or the shortcuts <Ctrl-Spacebar> or <Ctrl-Shift-Spacebar>, 
the UTF calc gets focus in the editor pane . Set the command dialog 
open_pdf_calc_from_utf_calc to the preferred PDF viewer to open the 
associated PDF from this tab using CTRL-P or the tool bar button. 7.The 
suggested model line length is 90 characters using mono-space 9pt font. 
Indents should be spaces, not tab characters. UTF calcs are formatted to 
a 90 character width. Set line background color and search highlighting 
in EditPreferences-Fonts and ColorsColors or Indicators. 8.Copy the file 
once_template.txt from the once tools folder to the My Templates folder 
in the Komodo user directory 

9.Recommended pane arrangement and keyboard bindings Set pane locations 
by right clicking on tabs or icons. Places (Projects and files)- left 
pane 

Editor - middle pane 

Command Output and Toolbox- right pane 

10.Copy once_keybindings.kkf to your settings directory and set in 
Preferences. For a list of active bindings select from menu: Help List 
Key Binding If context menu macros do not load when the program starts 
double-click on the following macros in the Toolbox once_macros folder 
to activate them: 

Z1context_commentsadds block comments to context menu (Editor) 
Z2context_osfileopen file using OS default association (Places) 
Z3context_modelfile close open files and open selected file (Places) 
Z4context_terminalopen terminal in selected folder (Places) 
Z5context_oncecommentsadds block comments to context menu (Editor) 

The once-specific context menu entries are shown below. 

Version 0.8.1 February 28, 2017 - page 54 

Model operations CTRL-0 insert break #stop CTRL-1section[s] 
CTRL-2symbolic[y] | CTRL-3term[t] | CTRL-4check[c] | | 
| | CTRL-5 array[a] #- CTRL-6 function[f] | CTRL-7equation[e] #- 
CTRL-8format #- formateq | 3, 3 | 1.0 #- 01 | 2, 2 | | 3 CTRL-9 file #- 
fileop #- 01 | s | file | | | CTRL-SHIFT-Zinsert licensepublic domain 
license CTRL-[ block commentz0_oncecomment (macro) CTRL-] block 
un-commentz0_onceuncomment (macro) 

IDE navigation CTRL-SHIFT-SPACE run onceutf save_run_open_onceutf macro 
CTRL-SPACE run oncepy save_run_open_oncepy macro CTRL-Popen PDF from UTF 
calc open_pdf_calc_from_utf macro CTRL-SHIFT-A save file assave_as macro 

CTRL-SHIFT-B toggle bottom paneon-c-e key binding 

CTRL-SHIFT-C close all close_all_files macro CTRL-SHIFT-D focus 
directory pane focus_directory macro CTRL-SHIFT-E focus edit pane Komodo 
default CTRL-SHIFT-F find text in all find_all_selected macro 
CTRL-SHIFT-Irun onceipy copy_equa_run_IPython macro CTRL-SHIFT-K search 
toolbox Komodo default CTRL-SHIFT-L toggle left paneKomodo default 

CTRL-SHIFT-N new file from template new_file_template macro CTRL-SHIFT-O 
focus output pane focus_output macro CTRL-SHIFT-Q set file preference 
set_file_pref macro CTRL-SHIFT-R toggle right paneKomodo default 

CTRL-TAB next editor tab Komodo default CTRL-SHIFT-T toggle toolbox 
displayshow_toolbox macro TAB exits search 

11.Navigate between correlated locations in the model and calc: Select 
text in a model or calc. Select find_all_selected from the toolbar < 
Ctrl-Shift-F>. Step through results with CTRL-TAB and F3 or select from 
list with mouse. Line location in file is maintained between runs. 

